>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
we've talked about components,
we've talked about templates,
now we're going to talk about services.
Now before I get into services, let's just
take a moment and talk about components.
So components consist of what?
A component class and an html template.
A component class is that and metadata.
So a component truly is an ES6
class with some metadata on
top to tell Angular hey, this is a thing,
I want you to know about it.
So if we understand that and
we understand the shape of ES6 classes and
if we put a property on the class,
it's available to the template,
if we put a method on the class,
it's available to the template.
And that very basic shape of we
have a class with properties and
methods, making a transition
to services is really easy.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: A surprise!
It's just a class.
This to me is one of the biggest punch
lines and it's a big ah-ha moment.
When you are working with Angular 2 and
above.
Everything follows the same basic shape.
So the footprint of Angular is now very,
very small because it's just letting
ES6 and tight script do all the work.
So we've seen with our component,
it's just a class with some metadata.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Service, if you can
believe me, same exact thing, class,
metadata.
If we were doing a pipe, class, metadata.
Directive, class, metadata and
on and on and on.
So we can reduce the majority
of Angular to this simple
basic shape, class, metadata.
And more often than not the class
has nothing to do with Angular,
it's just the metadata
that is telling you that this is how this
is going to live in the application.
So to that end, it's really quite simple.
We define the service, we expose
the service and we consume the service.
So let's talk about defining a service.
Now what we have here is class.
Yay!
And, so export class ItemsService,
we have some methods, does some stuff.
Fairly fine grain,
you can imagine here that load, save,
create, update, delete,
we're kind of walking around crud.
More so,
this is where your rest API calls go.
And some very fine grain specific methods,
each one of them do one thing that now
that we have a property on the class,
it's now available for
anything that is consuming it.
But when it comes to defining a class,
we are defining a service
is just a class with this little
bit of metadata right up here.
And so technically, and
I don't wanna get in to this, past culprit
actually explained to me one time like,
why you need it, and it has to do with how
the metadata is generated and there's
this one weird case where it will break.
And so, I pretty much said whatever,
it's the smallest piece of
metadata that there is.
And so, like, just put it on there.
And it just ensures that the correct, that
it's wired up correctly via the metadata.
So class, properties, methods.
You've created a class or service, which
really looks quite a bit like a component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: From there.
Well, we know how to register a component.
We need to do the same
thing with a service.
The difference is that instead
of going in the declarations,
is it goes in providers.
So you create the class,
expose the class via the module,
and then you can consume it.
Would anybody like to take a guess of how
you consume a service in a component?
>> Speaker 2: Pens the injection.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Pens the injection.
Via?
>> Speaker 2: Construct.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Constructor's time.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
what's awesome about this,
is I know at the morning when I was going
over kind of these big picture things,
it was like there's so much information.
Even just for me to say it and articulate
it, but as we start to expand it out.
Things start to fall into place and
you realize I'm just doing
the same thing over and over.
And so, this is how you provide a service
to a component and/or another
service that needs it.
As a parameter and a constructor,
and then using public or private.
Generally it's private,
that this under the hood
does constructor assignment and makes
it available for the rest of the class.
>> Speaker 3: Would you ever have more
then one service in the constructor?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So for instance, so
what do you think that would look like?
If one dependency is one parameter,
two dependencies would be?
>> Speaker 3: Two parameters
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Woo!
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: That's right,
I'm gonna start bridge.
If I was on master,
I'm pulling in items in widgets
like would literary look like here.
In general, what I'll do at that
point is I'll break it to a new line.
>> Speaker 3: Right.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
you just, you do it that way.
So let me, I'm gonna deviate just for
one second.
I think, possibly if you know
from classical languages,
this maybe make a lot of sense.
At the same time I wanna be cognizant
of the fact there are JavaScript
developers that have never
done a classical language.
Believe it or not, I learned my first
programming language was ActionScript,
which is a really, if you've done Flash,
it's similar to JavaScript,
but prototypical change, prototype based.
Now try learning OP.
But on that, it's really hard.
And so, I had to actually go do Java, and
then come back for
me to actually wrap my mind around that.
So what I wanna do real quick is just
take a second to show what is happening
with constructor assignment,
cuz I don't wanna gloss over this.
So I'm going to TypeScriptlenleng.org and
if you go over here on the playground
you can kind of start to,
I think we'll give you somebody
actually write some type script and
then to generate it into ES5 for you.
And so now, you'll notice
that message is they're
generating this on the ES5 is,
nothing has happened to it.
But let me just go like this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so,
if I wanted this message parameter to
exist outside of this.
So let me just go test,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let
me just delete this.
So now, I'm sending this in, if you
remember, ES5 is scoped to function.
So it's function block scope.
The scope exists around the function.
So once you put something into a function,
then that is the lexical
scope that it's assigned to.
Cal Simpson has some amazing courses here.
I recommend checking those out.
He is definitely going to say this
much better than I ever could.
So we have this message property,
we're sending in, and
I want to reference it out here.
So I wanna say, this.message = test.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Well, you can see
here, it's saying, we can't do that,
it doesn't exist.
So in order for this to work,
what I have to do is I have
to go this.message = message.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: But then, also what
I have to do because it's TypeScript,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Like this.
So if I was going to do this by hand,
you can see in kind of this
constructor this is saying message.
The perimeter is assigned
to a local member of it.
And so,
this is what is happening under the hood.
So I can actually reference this, if I
want to reference this thing outside of it
or rather this value, I need to assign it
to something that's local to that class.
Now what I can do for
shorthand is, check this out,
when I go like this TypeScript
under the hood is saying,
because this is a private member
we're going to go ahead and
do this assignment automatically for you.
And so, this is what is happening.
And so, when we want to inject,
let me do another one.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And let's go
broadcast, cuz I have no idea why.
But there's this string.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Same exact thing,
framers coming in,
it's assigning it to a local member.
So that it can exist and we can
reference it outside of the function.
So this is why when we're doing
Angular Dependency Injection,
we are using this public or
private modifier, this access modifier.
Because under the hood,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I just copy this.
Let's see if this works.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: This is
what's actually happening.
But the minute I take this
off it's just a parameter.
The minute I put this on,
it's a structure assignment.
And so, if you are actually doing ES6
you would have to do this in
the constructor, by hand.
I love it when it's, you're gonna do
this anyway, let's just do it for you.
And that's exactly what's happening.
So now, back to this.
>> Speaker 4: Is one of
those a best practice like,
is it better to do the private method or
is it to kinda do the long end version?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
private is, in Angular,
using constructor assignment is best
practice, so that's public or private.
It's considered best practice to use
private, because rarely are you going
to need to expose this as a public
member for consumption somewhere else.
I mean, there may be,
I've seen it a few weird, odd times,
especially with NTRX that you might
expose a store or something or rather,
the stores that you can
broadcast from the template.
But in my home component,
I would never do, I would never say like,
okay, this'll actually give us a good one.
Click, itemService.load or
something like that.
Because what you're doing is you're
breaking kind of the log demeter is that
an object should only be
able to go one degree
to its child object or parent.
So you don't actually wanna reach
two degrees out of an object.
>> Speaker 4: Sure.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so, this is why,
also when you do it like this,
you're now coupling this component to,
or rather this template to this service.
And so, this is why you make it private.
It's cuz your component
doesn't need to know or
rather, the template doesn't need to know
about the underlying implementation.
So you wanna keep those nice and clean.
So that's why it's considered
best practice to one,
use constructor assignment,
because it's easier.
It's actually easier even to read, because
you just kinda know what's happening,
once you understand it.
But also, that it,
you set it to private and
it kind of implies that this is not
going to be seen outside of this class.
Now, the caveat to that is there is no
concept of public and private in ES5.
So this is only enforced at run time or
rather, compile time.
At run time, because it's ES5,
all bets are off.
And so, there's ways to kind of,
if somebody really wanted to break it and
really hit that private member,
they could find a way to do it.
But this is merely to communicate intent.
And if I tried to access it while it's
compiling it, I would be like, nope,
don't do that.